# LOAN APPROVAL PREDICTION PROJECT

## Introduction
In this fast moving world, where great economies are solely built on how much debt they can get into. Developing countries looking to create an inclusive economy tend to focus on Small and Medium Businesses (MSMEs) who are the building blocks of the entire economy from statistical point of view.  Financial organization were mandated to cut drastically, their non-performing asset and give these businesses a fair share at growth without much hassles through injection of soft loans into their business with close to nothing requirements. 
However, Despite the relax requirements for loan approvals, most businesses still struggle to fulfill their side of the agreements. With the rising cases of loan defaulters either through inefficiencies of businesses(either by inability to breakthrough or business owners diverting fund for non-business purposes). Credit awarding institutions have lookup to data scientist to come up with a solution that seeks to vet out businesses or Individuals who are incapable servicing their loans as at due time. 
The aim of this project is to build a foolproof predict machine algorithm with near perfect accuracy to predict the likelihood of a business to payback its loan. Data are collated from [Kaggle](https://www.kaggle.com/code/ashutosh3060/loan-approval-strategy-model/data) to build this model.

## The Dataset
The loan dataset is a 16 variables data which were sectionalized into 2, client Background info and the client loan info Though both separate entities were merged into a singular dataset via their connecting "loan ID". other variables includes; 'loan_id', 'is_first_loan', 'fully_repaid_previous_loans', 'currently_repaying_other_loans', 'total_credit_card_limit', 'avg_percentage_credit_card_limit_used_last_year', 'saving_amount', 'checking_amount', 'is_employed', 'yearly_salary', 'age', 'dependent_number', 'loan_purpose', 'date', 'loan_granted', 'loan_repaid'. With over a hundred thousand clients info, the plan is to split the data set into TWO where [One](https://github.com/Kile-kun/Data_Analysis-Projects/blob/main/Loan%20Approval%20Prediction%20Project/Loan%20Data1.csv) will be used for modelling, testing and training and the [Other](https://github.com/Kile-kun/Data_Analysis-Projects/blob/main/Loan%20Approval%20Prediction%20Project/Loan%20Data2.csv) willbe introduced as an entirely new data to confirm the enficiency of the model.
